# Compare Condo Purchasing Options
You bring up an interesting point that he did not address in his discussion. My guess is that he did not do so because the article's point was to offer a glimpse of what managing a property remotely on Airbnb would be like without getting caught up in the details.

As to your point about including the cost of the apartment and renovations in his calculation of revenue and profit. Remember that he didn't lease the property, he purchased it. The $40K he spent on it is still an asset, he just converted the asset from cash to real property. If he purchased the property out right, without a loan, for $40K and that he has a net monthly revenue of $1,000 (after maintenance, utilities, cleaning, etc.). After 4 months he will have recouped $4,000 (or 10%) of the $40K in cash he spent on the property. Even though he still has 36 more months before he recoups all of his cash spent on purchasing the property, he has already made a profit. His net worth is now $44,000 ($4,000 in cash and $40,000 in real property). Of course this does not account for any increases or decreases in the value of the property. If after purchasing the property it's value dropped 20% (to $32,000), now he won't break even until his 8th month of operation. However, if the property appreciates 20% in those 4 months, he now as a net worth of $52,000, a profit of $12K.

This also works if he did not purchase the property out right, but took out a mortgage. Say he only had $10,000 in cash to start with. He purchases the property for $40K with a 20% down payment ($8K) and a promissory note for 80% ($36K) that is secured by a mortgage. Say the Note has a payment of $1,000 (of which $400 is interest and fees) and he brings in $1,300 a month in net revenue. This means that after 4 months he will have brought in $5,200 in revenue and paid $4,000 towards the mortgage (of which $2,400 went towards the principal and $1,600 was paid in interest and fees). After 4 months he will own a property worth $40K, owe $29,600 on the Note ($32K minus the $2,400), $1,200 in net revenue, and have $2,000 in cash left over after the down payment for a total net worth of $13,600 ($10,400 in real property and $3,200 in cash). Given that he started with $10,000K in cash, that is a profit of $3,600 after 4 months even though he still has another 40 or so months of payments to make.

If he leased the property and then sub-leased it on Airbnb, then you could say that his monthly expenses in renting the property could be subtracted from his monthly revenue. Say he leased the property for 5 years with an up front $40,000 payment. Then he wouldn't have a profit until after that $40,000 was paid off.